web/docs/operators/export.md, before:

---
sidebar_custom_props:
  operator:
    source: true
---

# export

Retrieves events from a Tenzir node. The dual to [`import`](import.md).

## Synopsis

```
export [--live] [--retro] [--internal] [--parallel <level>]
```

## Description

The `export` operator retrieves events from a Tenzir node.

### `--live`

Work on all events that are imported with `import` operators in real-time
instead of on events persisted at a Tenzir node.

### `--retro`

Export persistent events at a Tenzir node. Unless `--live` is given, this is
implied.

Combine `--retro` and `--live` to export past events and live events afterwards.

:::warning Experimental
There is a gap for live events that happen while past events are being exported.
:::

### `--internal`

Export internal events, such as metrics or diagnostics, instead. By default,
`export` only returns events that were previously imported with `import`. In
contrast, `export --internal` exports internal events such as operator metrics.

### `--parallel <level>`

The parallel level controls how many worker threads the operator uses at most
for querying historical events.

Defaults to 3.

## Examples

Expose all persisted events as JSON data.

```
export | to stdout
```

[Apply a filter](where.md) to all persisted events, then [only expose the first
ten results](head.md).

```
export | where 1.2.3.4 | head 10 | to stdout
```

Commit message:

Prevent unbounded memory usage in `export --live`
Before this change, a backpressure-blocked pipeline with `export --live`
was able to use potentially use infinite amounts of memory.

This also adds the `queued_events` field to export metrics.

web/docs/operators/export.md, after:

---
sidebar_custom_props:
  operator:
    source: true
---

# export

Retrieves events from a Tenzir node. The dual to [`import`](import.md).

## Synopsis

```
export [--live] [--retro] [--internal] [--parallel <level>]
```

## Description

The `export` operator retrieves events from a Tenzir node.

### `--live`

Work on all events that are imported with `import` operators in real-time
instead of on events persisted at a Tenzir node.

Note that live exports may drop events if the following pipeline fails to keep
up. To connect pipelines with back pressure, use the [`publish`](publish.md) and
[`subscribe`](subscribe.md) operators.

### `--retro`

Export persistent events at a Tenzir node. Unless `--live` is given, this is
implied.

Combine `--retro` and `--live` to export past events and live events afterwards.

:::warning Experimental
There is a gap for live events that happen while past events are being exported.
:::

### `--internal`

Export internal events, such as metrics or diagnostics, instead. By default,
`export` only returns events that were previously imported with `import`. In
contrast, `export --internal` exports internal events such as operator metrics.

### `--parallel <level>`

The parallel level controls how many worker threads the operator uses at most
for querying historical events.

Defaults to 3.

## Examples

Expose all persisted events as JSON data.

```
export | to stdout
```

[Apply a filter](where.md) to all persisted events, then [only expose the first
ten results](head.md).

```
export | where 1.2.3.4 | head 10 | to stdout
```
